Had you chosen to spend your vacation in Venezuela,
you could have climbed a snow-covered mountain,
taken a ride in the world's highest and longest cable car,
ridden horseback across seemingly endless plains,
observing the unique fauna, or contemplated
that we monoliths on the Grand Sabana,
or flown over the world's highest waterfall,
or simply relaxed on the white sands of a Caribbean beach,
just a few of the things that Venezuela has to offer.
And with gasoline at four U.S. cents a gallon,
yes, you heard correctly, four U.S. cents a gallon,
sounds like paradise already, doesn't it?
Well, not really.
The economic situation in Venezuela is precarious,
and there are daily shortages of just about everything
from sugar to shampoo.
In the last few months, too, we have been through a massive
epidemic of Chikungonia, which is an unpleasant African flu.
So the people in Venezuela need a message of hope.
Now, just about everybody in Venezuela
believes in God and the Bible.
So this makes the peaching work very enjoyable.
All have the opportunity to hear the Kingdom message
in the crowded slums of the big cities,
or in the Andean mountain villages,
or along the 2,800 kilometers of Caribbean coastline.
And we also have a motorized boat
in order to reach those who live on the banks
of the Amazon tributaries.
Now, last year, we had a peak of 140,226 publishers,
which now means a ratio of 1 to 214.
The memorial attendance was encouraging
two with 467,390 being present to commemorate Christ death.
Regular pioneers, yes, we have 26,930 of them,
which means that one in every five witnesses in Venezuela
enjoys this facet of service.
All in all, Jehovah Servants in Venezuela
are living up to his name, and a tremendous witness
is being given nationwide.
And not just in Spanish.
There are congregations and groups in Arabic, Chinese, English,
German, Haitian Creole, Italian, Portuguese, Ecuadorian
Quichua, Russia, Russian, and in Venice,
Wales and Sign Language.
And not to be overlooked, are several indigenous languages,
the largest being Waiunaiki.
Our remote translation offices translate into Warao,
Pieroa, Pemón, and Yucpa.
Now, an experience to illustrate how opportunities to preach
can present themselves when we least expect.
Our brother, Rigoberto, is a taxi driver,
and he was called out to transport the mourners
from the funeral home to the cemetery,
only to find the family very upset
because the Roman Catholic priest had not arrived
to give the funeral talk.
So Rigoberto suggested to the family that
if they wanted, he could say a few appropriate words from the Bible.
And they agreed, and he gave a five-minute talk,
sharing with them comforting verses and distributing copies
of the tract, what hope for dead loved ones.
Now, the family of the deceased was most grateful
and offered him the money that they had collected
for the Catholic priest.
Of course, our brother declined.
And the owner of the funeral home he had observed all of this,
and he commented that, in effect,
the family had benefited for a two-for-one deal,
a ride to the cemetery with a complimentary funeral talk thrown in
at no extra charge.
And to illustrate the respect that many still have
for Jehovah's people in Venezuela,
a few months ago, one Sunday evening,
circuit overseer Jose Medina and his wife,
Natua, were held up by three armed gunmen.
Now, the gunmen made off with their vehicle and their belongings.
But 30 minutes later, the thieves called a brother,
whose number was listed in System Medina's cell phone directory.
They confessed that they had been unaware
that their victims were Jehovah's Witnesses.
They apologized for the trouble and explained that the car
could be retrieved in a nearby street
where they had left the vehicle intact.
Very special people are Venezuelans.
You can't help but love them.
Now, finally, with recently completed
the construction of our mini-patterson,
the Venezuela branch is very own educational center adjacent to Bethel,
where we will hold classes of the school for kingdom evangelizers.
It consists of a residence building for the students
and the instructors, a classroom and offices,
a dining room and kitchen.
And on the same site is an expandable kingdom hall
used by the three local congregations and, of course,
expanded for the assemblies of two nearby circuits.
So, brothers, to all those present here,
we take the opportunity to share with you
the warm love and greetings from all those serving at the branch in Venezuela.